docs: remove API Reference overview pages, fold into endpoints (#389)
DeepLcom/api-docs: api-reference/translate/request-translation.mdx

---
openapi: post /v2/translate

> title: "Translate text"

Author: **Description not action-oriented for developer learning**

The frontmatter description 'Translate one or more text strings into a target language.' is functional but reads as a feature description rather than telling developers what they'll accomplish or learn. Per CLAUDE.md, descriptions should use 'Learn how to X' framing or equivalent.

**Suggested fix:** Change to: 'Send text to the DeepL API and receive translations in a target language.' This orients the reader toward the action and outcome without being generic.

---
openapi: post /v2/translate
title: "Translate text"

> description: "Translate one or more texts into a target language, with optional glossary, style, formality, and tag-handling controls."

Author: **Frontmatter description could be more action-oriented**

The description 'Translate one or more texts into a target language, with optional glossary, style, formality, and tag-handling controls.' is informational but not action-oriented per CLAUDE.md guidance ('Learn how to X' over 'Information about X'). It also uses 'tag-handling' with a hyphen inconsistently with how 'tag handling' appears unhyphenated in the body text on line 9.

```suggestion
description: "Translate one or more texts into a target language using optional glossary, style, formality, and tag handling controls."
```

---

> Translates up to 50 texts per request into the specified target language. Source language detection is automatic when `source_lang` is omitted.

Author: **Intro sentence duplicates OpenAPI spec information**

The sentence 'Translates up to 50 texts per request into the specified target language. Source language detection is automatic when `source_lang` is omitted.' likely repeats information already present in the OpenAPI spec description or the overview page. In a thin reference wrapper like this, the prose intro should add context not already surfaced by the spec renderer, or be omitted entirely.

**Suggested fix:** Remove the intro sentence if the OpenAPI spec already surfaces the 50-text limit and auto-detection behavior. If this context is genuinely absent from the spec, keep it but verify the 50-text limit is accurate for v2.

> See the [Translate text overview](/api-reference/translate) for request body descriptions, model selection guidance, sentence splitting behavior, tag handling, and examples for translating large volumes of text.

Author: **Cross-reference phrasing is passive and list-heavy**

The cross-reference sentence lists five topics ('request body descriptions, model selection guidance, sentence splitting behavior, tag handling, and examples for translating large volumes of text') as a comma-separated string. This is hard to skim and reads like a table of contents rather than a useful signpost.

```suggestion
For parameter details, model selection, tag handling, and batch examples, see the [Translate text overview](/api-reference/translate).
```
